modules: tfm:Improve TF-M alignment assert message (#10764)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/app_dev/tfm/index.rst

* OFB
* CFB

The non-secure partition address must be aligned to the NRF_SPU flash region size.

> 

Author: You are right, that was actually there before I added the "TF-M partition alignment requirements" and forgot to remove it. I will remove this.

> Nordic platforms require the non secure partition start address to be aligned with the SPU flash region size.

Reviewer: Saying Nordic platforms for some limitations, but not these other limitations is inconsistent.

Also, why you are here, would you mind removing "Attestation service" from the unsupported list.

(Above)

> Nordic platforms require the non secure partition start address to be aligned with the SPU flash region size.

Reviewer 2: @SebastianBoe We have a follow-up task for the attestation service among other things.

When the :ref:`partition_manager` is enabled, it will take into consideration the alignment requirements.
But when the static partitions are used, the user is responsible for following the alignment requirements.

If you are experiencing any partition alignment issues when using the Partition Manager, check the :ref:`known_issues` page on the main branch.

The partitions which need to be aligned to the SPU flash region size are partitions ``tfm_nonsecure`` and ``nonsecure_storage``.
Both the partition start address and the partition size need to be aligned with the NRF_SPU flash region size:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_SPU_FLASH_REGION_SIZE`.

Note that the ``tfm_nonsecure`` partition is placed after the ``tfm_secure`` partition, thus the end address of the ``tfm_secure`` partition is the same as the start address of the ``tfm_nonsecure`` partition.
As a result, altering the size of the ``tfm_secure`` partition affects the start address of the ``tfm_nonsecure`` partition.

The following static partition snippet shows a non-aligned configuration for nRF5340 which has a SPU flash region size :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_SPU_FLASH_REGION_SIZE` of 0x4000.

> .. code-block:: console

Reviewer 3: Add blank line before this line.
To fix the rendering issue.

Enabling Floating point support in TF-M is currently not supported.
Enabling Floating point Hard ABI (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_FP_HARDABI`) in the application is currently not supported.

.. _ug_tfm_partition_alignment_requirements:

> Trusted Firmware-M partition alignment requirements

Author: Ok, I did that now.

***************************************************

NCS ensures that secure and non-secure partition addresses must be aligned to the NRF_SPU flash region size in order to follow the TF-M requirements.
TF-M requires this alignment because it uses the SPU to enforce the security policy between partitions.
When partition manager is enabled it will take into consideration the alignment requirements but when static partitions are used the user is responsible of following the alignment requirements.
If you face partition alignment issues using the partition manager please check the known issues.
Specifically the partitions which need to be algned with the SPU flash region size are the tfm_secure and tfm_nonsecure partitions.

The following static partition snippet shows a non-aligned configuration for NRF5340 which has a SPU region size :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DEBUG_OPTIMIZATIONS` of 0x4000.
.. code-block:: console
   ...
   tfm_secure:
      address: 0xc000
      size: 0xc200
      span: [mcuboot_pad, tfm]
   tfm_nonsecure:
      address: 0x18200
      size: 0x5ae00
   ...

> In the above example the tfm_nonsecure partition starts at address 0x18200 which is not aligned with the SPU requirement of 0x4000.
> We can edit the file by decreasing the size of the tfm_secure partition by 0x200 and increasing the size of the tfm_nonsecure partition by the same value.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the above example, the tfm_nonsecure partition starts at address 0x18200, which is not aligned with the SPU requirement of 0x4000.
We can edit the file by decreasing the size of the tfm_secure partition by 0x200 and increasing the size of the tfm_nonsecure partition by the same value.
```

Enabling Floating point support in TF-M is currently not supported.
Enabling Floating point Hard ABI (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_FP_HARDABI`) in the application is currently not supported.

.. _ug_tfm_partition_alignment_requirements:

TF-M partition alignment requirements
*************************************

TF-M requires that secure and non-secure partition addresses must be aligned to the NRF_SPU flash region size :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_SPU_FLASH_REGION_SIZE`.
|NCS| ensures that they in fact are aligned and comply with the TF-M requirements.

TF-M requires this alignment because it uses the SPU to enforce the security policy between the partitions.
When the partition manager is enabled, it will take into consideration the alignment requirements.
But when the static partitions are used, the user is responsible for following the alignment requirements.

> If you are experiencing any partition alignment issues when using the partition manager, check for known issues.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you are experiencing any partition alignment issues when using the partition manager, check the `known issues page on the main branch`_.
```

Author: Should be edited now I think.

> The partitions which need to be aligned to the SPU flash region size are the tfm_secure and tfm_nonsecure partitions.

Author: I will rephrase it so that we will point clearly about the start of TF-M  non secure being the requirement.

> The following static partition snippet shows a non-aligned configuration for nRF5340 which has a SPU flash region size :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_SPU_FLASH_REGION_SIZE` of 0x4000.

Reviewer 2: The example is for static partitions, we should have one where a static partition is not used.

When using a static partition file:

<example>

When using a generated partition file:

Change value of CONFIG_PM_PARTITION_SIZE_TFM (or other PM_PARTITION_SIZE) configurations so that the end of TF-M is aligned on ...
Compare the generated partition file <build>/partitions.yml with the above example for static partitions.

Author: I think that this will complicate things more and it is not meant to exist in the application development. It is the responsibility of the partition manager to make sure that this works as expected, not a requirement of the user. In the known issues with your addition we mention this configuration change so for me this is enough.
Let me know if you think that this is required.

.. code-block:: console
   ...
   tfm_secure:
      address: 0xc000
      size: 0xc200
      span: [mcuboot_pad, tfm]
   tfm_nonsecure:
      address: 0x18200
      size: 0x5ae00

>    ...

Author: I included a modified example that includes the information that you refer to here.
